# Cloud Computing: Use Cases

## Earth Science

### Background

The Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) and the Earth
Science Data and Information System (ESDIS) provide key core capabilities for
NASA's Earth Science Data Systems (ESDS) Program.

According to https://earthdata.nasa.gov/about, EOSDIS "*provides end-to-end
capabilities for managing NASA’s Earth science data from various sources –
satellites, aircraft, field measurements, and various other programs*" and
"*provides capabilities for command and control, scheduling, data capture
and initial (Level 0) processing*" for the Earth-Observing System (EOS)
satellites NASA manages. The ESDIS project, on the other hand, manages the
downstream processes and capabilities which include "*generation of higher level
(Level 1-4) science data products for EOS missions; archiving and distribution
of data products from EOS and other satellite missions, as well as aircraft
and field measurement campaigns*". The following figure depicts the overall
context of EOSDIS and ESDIS.

![](images/EOSDIS_context.png)

**Figure:** EOSDIS context. Source: [John Moses/NSIDC DAAC Users Working Group](https://nsidc.org/sites/nsidc.org/files/files/rpt_esdis_overview_moses.pdf)

Traditionally, higher level products (those used by end users) are produced by
the Science Investigator-led Processing System (SIPS) usually hosted and
operated at on-premise facilities belonging to the Science and Instrument
Team's affiliate research center. Furthermore, these higher level products are
then ingested and cataloged by an affiliate Distributed Active Archive Center
(DAAC) for the purpose of providing public distribution, access, and discovery
to these datasets. Historically, these DAACs provide their capability using
on-premise resources and compute as well. The following figure depicts the
geographic locations of the various on-premise SIPS and DAAC centers that
generate and distribute the various NASA EOS datasets.

### Big Data

Add motivation for a move to the cloud.

![](images/SIPS_DAAC_centers.png)

**Figure:** SIPS and DAAC centers. Source: [Baynes et al./NASA's EOSDIS Cumulus](https://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20180000548.pdf)


## Bioinformatics

Content goes here.

**References:**

:o: TODO we will use also bibtex for references

* <https://earthdata.nasa.gov/about>
* <https://nsidc.org/sites/nsidc.org/files/files/rpt_esdis_overview_moses.pdf>
