# Help

To ask for help use piazza: <https://piazza.com/iu/spring2019/e222spring19/resources>

# How to take this class

This class is an undergraduate class that contains two sections that
you must attend.

First it contains a lecture section that will introduce you
theoretically to some concepts that are important for this class.
Online lectures may augment these lectures that you also will have to
look at. In addition you you certainly look up material relevant to
the lecture in books or online resources, as well as these lecture
notes.

To allow you to be most flexible in taking this class, we certainly
allow you to work ahead. This you can use all but the in person
lectures ahead of time. The Syllabus will clearly identify which
material is available.  Note that the book may include sections that
are not marked in the syllabus. You do not have to read such sections.

Please note that this class does not have *small* assignments and any
assignment is likely to take you some time. Thus it is advisable that
you start your assignments early and make sure you do not do them in
the last week. In order to facilitate this we will introduce graded
checkpoints of all large assignments. The grades for these checkpoints
are final and can not be improved by work done later.

To further make sure you progress, you will have to manage a
notebook.md file in your github directory (that we will create for
you) in which you will update your weekly progress. If you miss a
lecture, it is in your responsibility to inform yourself what was
being taught. Attendance and participation will be graded.

In the following calendar we put in the last day of the week 
when the assignments are typically due

:o: The list of activities listed at this time does not yet include
the lectures, and will be updated once we have them finalized.
To see the differences you cann look at:

* <https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/book/commits/master/chapters/quick222.md>


* Week 1: Jan 11

   *Logistic:*
   
   Get familiar with the class structure. 
   
   Read: Preface; Class Overview; Start reviewing your python
   knowledge
   
   Assignments: Find a computer you can do the class programming on
   (tablet and chrombook will not suffice).  Get an account on
   piazza.com with your @iu.edu name Get an account on github.com
   (This is NOT the IU github) and apply there for a github
   username. Post the username into a form that will be send to
   you. Make sure that the account you send us is your github.com
   account. This is a graded assignment that must be completed in the
   first week of class
   
   Points you get for:
   
   * having computer access (bring it to the Lab).  You will fill out
     a survey with information about it.
   * having posted the bio to piazza
   * having posted your github username
   
:o: Additional information will be posted here, please check weekly.

   Read: Learn about markdown. See our class notes and internet
   resources.  Note that we use pandoc markdown that may not render
   properly in github, especially when it comes to figure captions,
   references, and bibliography.
    
* Week 2: Jan 18

  *Theory:* Learn about REST services and use Swagger OpenAPI to
  create a rest service that returns the CPU information about your
  computer
  
  *Report:* Create an empty report based on our template in
  github. THe TAs may do this with you in the Lab.
  
  *Github Pull Requests*: Find a spelling error in the class material
  and create a pull request to correct it.
  
* Week 3: Jan 25

  *Report:* Learn bibtex and create references in report.bib that you
   use in report.md
  
  * Mon, Jan 21 No classes
  
* Week 4: Feb 1

  *Project team:* Build a project team with no more than 3
  people. There will not be an exception.  You are allowed to work
  alone. Make sure your project team does the work together.  E.g. YOu
  must not have 3 people on the team and the project could have been
  executed by a single person. In case of more than one person the sum
  of the deliverables must be larger than what one team member can
  achieve. It is an advantage to work in a team as you can check each
  other.
  
  If a team member does not contribute to the project, the team has
  the right to exclude the non working team member with consultation
  of the instructors. We will have a joint meeting with the team to
  identify the best path forward. Chose your team members wisely.
  Ideally you should make this decision in the first 3 weeks.
  
  *Project Idea due:* A one page formal document that summarizes the
  project.  This is not a proposal. The workds *I* and *project*,
  *report* must not be used.  It is essentially a snapshot of your
  final report.
  
  *Github:* make sure your team mates have access to your project
   directory.
  
* Week 5: Feb 8

  Project Update due: A two page formal document that summarizes the
  project.  This is not a proposal. The words *I* and *project*,
  *report* must not be used.  It is essentially a snapshot of your
  final report.
  
* Week 6: Feb 15

  Project Update due: A multi-paragraph description about the data
  that you use for your project is to be added to your report. This
  includes details about the data. IN a documented program you show
  cases how you down load the data with python request in an automated
  fashion.
    
* Week 7: Feb 22

  Project update due: Have a documented program ready that uses a REST
  service to obtain data for your analysis
  
* Week 8: Mar 1

  Project update due: identify how to do benchmarks and time the
  execution of your project. Add planed benchmarks to tour report. Do
  not use the word *plan* or *will* write it in such a form as if it
  were done. Instead put a :o: on benchmarks that you will that you
  wrok on
  
* Week 9: Mar 8
  
  Project update: Study matplotlib and bokeah and identify how to
  visualize other aspects of your projects. Your are also allowed to
  use D3.js and add ons to it.  You are **not allowed** to use tablaeu.
  
* Week 10: Mar 15

  March 10 - 17 Lecture free time, no class support. 
  
* Week 11: Mar 22

  Project update: Identify analysis algorithms for your project and
  apply them.  Experiment with what you can do with the data
  
* Week 12: Mar 29

  Project update: Identify analysis algorithms for your project and
  apply them.  Experiment with what you can do with the data
  
* Week 13: Apr 5

  Project update: Identify analysis algorithms for your project and
  apply them.  Experiment with what you can do with the data. Start
  benchmarks.
  
* Week 14: Apr 12

  Project update: Focus on your project report and finalize it. THe
  project report must include references in bibtex
  format. Double-check integration in proceedings.
  
* Week 15: Apr 19 - Project due date.

     As the Project will take time to grade all projects are due two
     weeks (yes, you read correctly) before the semester ends.  The
     project will have the following artifacts:
     
     * completed project report
     * completed project code
     * completed instructions on you to replicate your project on
       someone else's computer or a cloud service
       
     * any other outstanding task.

* Week 16: Apr 26

  * Project improvement if needed (majority should be finished)
  * Make sure your project report is showing up correctly in the proceedings
  
* Week 16: May 3

  * Project improvement if needed (majority should be finished)
  * Make sure your project report is showing up correctly in the proceedings
  

